feat: add params schema docs for includes (#311)
livingdocsIO/livingdocs: guides/youtube_include.md

# Add an Youtube Include

This guide will show you how to add a custom Include for Youtube. We will show the implementation for the design, server and editor.
This is more of a quick-guide where you can just copy and paste code. For a deeper understanding you can dive into [server-customization](../reference-docs/includes/server_customization.md) and [editor-customization](../reference-docs/includes/editor_customization.md)

## Design definition

> In the design you will define the component. This is pretty basic.

Reviewer: I'd remove the `This is pretty basic`. That's only if you already know a lot. But the target audience of this Guide doesn't. So for them it's not "basic".

```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'youtube',
  label: 'Youtube',

>   iconUrl: 'https://baz.org/foo-icon',

Reviewer: maybe use `example.com` as the domain here. example.com is specifically for these kind of things. So people using example code don't do requests to other domains.

  directives: [{
    name: 'youtubeInclude',
    type: 'include',
    service: 'youtubeIncludeService'
  }],
  html: `
    <div doc-include="youtubeInclude">

>       <div>Youtube Include</div>

Reviewer: add a comment that the content will be replaced by the return value of the service?

    </div>
  `
}
```

## Server - rendering the include and defining the service

In the server you will define the `youtubeIncludeService`

This service has one main job - rendering the include with parameters filled in the editor.

```js
// app/server.js
liServer.features.register('custom-includes', require('app/includes'))

// app/includes/index.js
module.exports = async function (feature, server) {
  const includesApi = server.features.api('li-includes')

  // register the include service
  await includesApi.registerServices([
    require('../../plugins/includes/youtubeService')
  ])
}

// ../../plugins/includes/youtubeService.js
module.exports = {
  name: 'youtubeIncludeService',

>   // define the possible parameters an include can recieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // define the possible parameters an include can recieve
  // this schema will be used to render a form for data input in the sidebar
```

        }
      }
    }
  ],

  // define the default parameter
  defaultParams: {
    url: ''
  },

  // define the render mechanism
  rendering: {
    type: 'function',
    render: renderYoutube
  }
}

async function renderYoutube (params, options) {
  const {url} = params
  if (!url) { return {html: ''} }

  // always extract the ID so the document only contains 'safe' HTML
  const videoId = getId(url)
  return {html: `<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/${videoId}" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>`
  }
}

// extracts the ID... This just serves an example
function getId (url) {
  const regExp = /^.*(youtu.be\/|v\/|u\/\w\/|embed\/|watch\?v=|&v=)([^#&?]*).*/
  const match = url.match(regExp)

  return (match && match[2].slice(0, 11))
    ? match[2].slice(0, 11)
    : null
}
```

Below you can see the sidebar generated by the defined `paramsSchema`:
![Rendered Sidebar](./images/youtube_include_sidebar.png)

And once a user enters a link, the youtube component is complete:
![Rendered Youtube Include](./images/youtube_include.png)

## Editor - Triggering a custom script
Youtube should already be rendering without any further integration.

> If your include does not render correctly, feel free to check out the example [here](./twitter_include_embed.md#editor-sidebar-and-trigger-twitter-script) to trigger the render mechanism of a given script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your include does not render correctly, you might need to trigger rendering on changes. See the example [here](./twitter_include_embed.md#editor-sidebar-and-trigger-twitter-script) to learn how to run code when new content is injected into the document.
```
